doc: GCP private packages references (#173)
gatling/frontline-cloud-doc: content/reference/admin/private_locations/private_packages/index.md

# Introduction

Private Locations facilitate running simulations in your dedicated cloud environment. 
Ensure secure storage of sensitive simulation packages in your private cloud. 

The Control Plane offers a private repository; enable it for confidential package management!

# Private packages

> To create private packages, utilize our Gatling Enterprise Cloud packages API and upload them through a 

Reviewer: I find `utilize` strange here, `use` may be more suitable. IIRC my English lessons (ouch, that was a while back), "utilize" may be translated as "tirer parti"

> To create private packages, utilize our Gatling Enterprise Cloud packages API and upload them through a 
> plugin configured with the Control Plane's private package repository and a Configurer public API Token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create private packages, use the Gatling Enterprise Cloud packages API and upload them through a 
plugin configured with the Control Plane's private package repository and a configured public API Token.
```
This sentence seems complicate and the process is described in usage section. Maybe we can write something like 

> Thanks to the control-plane package API and token, you will able to upload directly your package to your control plane. By this way, your package will not leave your infrastructure.

When initiating a Gatling run, the Control Plane generates a temporary signed link to allow the download of the private package from the load generators.

{{< img src="private_packages_general_architecture.png" alt="Infrastructure schema" >}}

{{< alert info >}}
Private Packages are based on Private Locations. You can not use them with managed locations.
{{< /alert >}}

## Infrastructure

> Currently, private packages can be integrated with either AWS S3 or GCP Cloud Storage repositories.3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, private packages can be integrated with either AWS S3 or GCP Cloud Storage repositories.
```

Reviewer: That's a footnote I think :)

{{< alert info >}}

> Before going further, ensure that your repository is ready to hold your packages.

Reviewer: Add a "see Control Plane repository section for detailed permissions requirements" with a link to the anchor, I think

Author: Permissions refer to the control plane more than the repository here.

{{< /alert >}}

### Control Plane server

> First thing first, control plane with private repository have a server to forward uploads on the repository using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First thing first, control plane with private repository have a server to manage simulation artifacts uploads on the repository using 
```

> Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with Configurer permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with configured permission.
```

Author: Configurer is a specific role

> Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with Configurer permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with `Configure` permission.
```

The server is accessible on port 8080 by default when a repository is configured.
Below, you'll find the server configuration along with its default settings for your reference.

```bash
control-plane {
  repository {

>     # Upload configuration (optional)

Reviewer: What we've done lately: optional configurations are documented as comments so that users do not leave them in their own conf at copy paste if they don't need it.

Author: Here, it'll result in a fully commented block. I specified in bold that this is optional.
That way, they only copy repository bucket configuration

- **server.certificate**: The server P12 certificate for secure connection without SSL reverse proxy. (optional)

### Control Plane repository

#### AWS S3

{{< alert warning >}}
Control plane with private repository needs AWS permissions `s3:PutObject`, `s3:DeleteObject` and `s3:GetObject` on the bucket.
{{< /alert >}}

Once it is done, add the private repository configuration section in your [control plane configuration]({{< ref "../introduction" >}}) file:

```bash
control-plane {
  repository {
    # S3 Bucket configuration
    bucket = "bucket-name"
    path = "folder/to/upload" # (optional, default: root)
  }
}
```

This configuration includes the following parameters:
- **bucket**: The name of the bucket where packages are uploaded to on AWS S3.
- **path:** The path of a folder in AWS S3 bucket. (optional)

#### GCP Cloud Storage

{{< alert warning >}}
Control plane with private repository needs GCP service account role with permissions `storage.objects.create`, 
`storage.objects.delete` and `iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob` on the bucket.
{{< /alert >}}

```bash
control-plane {
  repository {
    # S3 Bucket configuration
    bucket = "bucket-name"

>     path = "folder/to/upload" # (optional, default: root)

Reviewer 2: We are in GCP PP section, please update :)

  }
}
```

This configuration includes the following parameters:
- **bucket**: The name of the bucket where packages are uploaded to on GCP Cloud Storage.
- **path:** The path of a folder in Cloud Storage bucket. (optional)

## Usage

After configuration, restart your control plane to start the server.

### Creating a Private Package

> To create a private package, you can utilize Gatling Enterprise Cloud's public API. Follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: I think we can mention that the easy way to create a private package is create a new simulation from the build tool.

Author: You can't...

> 1. Obtain an API Token with "Configure" permission for the relevant team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain an API Token with `Configure` permission for the relevant team.
```

> 2. Navigate to the Swagger package section for further instructions on creating a private package.

Reviewer 2: I think we can reference the package section here ?

Author: I don't think so... Nothing align and API isn't linkable.

Reviewer 2: The swagger api isn't linkable ? I don't get the point ?

Reviewer 2: Ok, it is not a public doc.

3. When creating the package, ensure you select a private storage type.

> 4. Utilize Gatling plugins to create and upload your private packages. You can refer to the Gatling documentation for specific plugin usage:

Reviewer: Same strange feeling about "utilize"

# Introduction

Private Locations facilitate running simulations in your dedicated cloud environment. 
Ensure secure storage of sensitive simulation packages in your private cloud. 

> The Control Plane offers a private repository; enable it for confidential package management!

Reviewer 3: There is some inconsistent capitalization of the terms "control plane", "private locations", and "private packages". The control plane should always be lowercase as it is a widely used term in network traffic routing.  A private package or location is lowercase, but if we are referring to the Gatling features, is should be Private Packages and Private Locations (both plural and capitalized). WDYT?

# Private packages

> Private package is upload through the Control Plane into a private repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private package is uploaded through the Control Plane into a private repository.
```

> Private package is uploaded through the Control Plane into a private repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A private package is uploaded through the Control Plane into a private repository.
```

> _Gatling Enterprise Cloud only receive the Gatling version associated with the package and the names of simulation classes, which aids in simulation configuration_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Gatling Enterprise Cloud only receive the Gatling version associated with the package and the names of simulation classes, which helps in simulation configuration_
```

```suggestion
_Gatling Enterprise Cloud only receive the Gatling version associated with the package and the names of simulation classes, which is used in simulation configuration_
```

> _Gatling Enterprise Cloud only receive the Gatling version associated with the package and the names of simulation classes, which helps in simulation configuration_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Gatling Enterprise Cloud only receives the Gatling version associated with the package and the names of simulation classes, which helps in simulation configuration_
```

When initiating a Gatling run, the Control Plane generates a temporary signed link to allow the download of the private package from the load generators.

{{< img src="private_packages_general_architecture.png" alt="Infrastructure schema" >}}

{{< alert info >}}
Private Packages are based on Private Locations. You can not use them with managed locations.
{{< /alert >}}

## Infrastructure

Currently, private packages can be integrated with either AWS S3 or GCP Cloud Storage repositories.

{{< alert info >}}
Before going further, ensure that your repository is ready to hold your packages.
{{< /alert >}}

### Control Plane server

> First thing first, control plane with private repository have a server to manage uploads on the repository, secured by 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The control plane with a private repository has a server to manage uploads to the repository, secured by 
```

> Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with `Configure` role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a Gatling Enterprise Cloud API Token with `Configure` role.
```

The server is accessible on port 8080 by default when a repository is configured.

> Below, you'll find the **optional server configuration** along with its default settings for your reference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following  **optional server configuration**  with the default settings is provided for reference.
```

Reviewer 3: I try to avoid direction words like "below" as they have accessibility issues for people using screen readers

- **bucket**: The name of the bucket where packages are uploaded to on AWS S3.
- **path:** The path of a folder in AWS S3 bucket. (optional)

#### GCP Cloud Storage

{{< alert warning >}}
Control plane with private repository needs GCP service account role with permissions `storage.objects.create`, 
`storage.objects.delete` and `iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob` on the bucket.
{{< /alert >}}

```bash
control-plane {
  repository {
    # Cloud Storage Bucket configuration
    type = "gcp"
    bucket = "bucket-name"
    path = "folder/to/upload" # (optional, default: root)
  }
}
```

This configuration includes the following parameters:
- **bucket**: The name of the bucket where packages are uploaded to on GCP Cloud Storage.
- **path:** The path of a folder in Cloud Storage bucket. (optional)

## Usage

After configuration, restart your control plane to start the server.

### Creating a Private Package

To create a private package, you can use Gatling Enterprise Cloud's public API. Follow these steps:

1. Obtain an API Token with `Configure` permission for the relevant team.
2. Navigate to the Swagger package section for further instructions on creating a private package.

> 3. When creating the package, ensure you select a private storage type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. When creating the package, select a private storage type.
```

4. Use Gatling plugins to create and upload your private packages. You can refer to the Gatling documentation for specific plugin usage:
  - [Maven plugin](https://gatling.io/docs/gatling/reference/current/extensions/maven_plugin/)
  - [Gradle plugin](https://gatling.io/docs/gatling/reference/current/extensions/gradle_plugin/)
  - [SBT plugin](https://gatling.io/docs/gatling/reference/current/extensions/sbt_plugin/)
5. For each plugin, you will need to configure it with the following details:

>   - Your API token with "configure" permission for the private package team.

Reviewer 3: earlier `Configure` is used, and here is it "configure." I like the first and it is most consistent with how it appears in the product.

  - The private package ID.
  - The control plane repository URL.

{{< alert tip >}}
To create a private package easily from the plugin instead of the API, you can use the interactive enterprise start command.
{{< /alert >}}

### Deleting a Private Package

To delete a private package, delete the package within Gatling Enterprise Cloud. 

> Control plane will receive the order to delete the package on the configured private repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The control plane will receive the order to delete the package on the configured private repository.
```
